[Android][status-bar][kav] Fix behaviour in standalone apps (#6506)
expo/expo: docs/pages/versions/unversioned/guides/configuring-statusbar.md

The valid values are:
- `light-content` - The status bar content is light colored (usually white). This is the default value.
- `dark-content` - The status bar content is dark colored (usually dark grey). This is only available on Android 6.0 onwards. It will fallback to `light-content` in older versions.

> Note: If you choose `light-content` and have either a very light image set as the `SplashScreen` or `backgroundColor` set to a light color, the status bar icons may blend in and not be visible.
> Same goes for `dark-content` when you have a very dark image set as the `SplashScreen` or `backgroundColor` set to a dark color.

### `backgroundColor`

This option can be used to set a background color for the status bar.
The valid value is a 6-character long hexadecimal solid color string with the format `#RRGGBB` (e.g. `#C2185B`) or 8-character long hexadecimal color string with transparency with the format `#RRGGBBAA` (e.g. `#23C1B255`).
Defaults to `#00000000` (fully transparent color).

### `translucent`

Value type - `boolean`.

> Specifies whether status bar should be translucent.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Specifies whether the status bar should be translucent.
```

> When this is set to `true`, status bar is visible on the screen, but it takes no space and your application can draw beneath it (similar to a `View` element with styles `{ position: "absolute", top: 0 }` that is rendered above the app content at the top of the screen).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When this is set to `true`, the status bar is visible on the screen, but it takes no space and your application can draw beneath it (similar to a `View` element with styles `{ position: "absolute", top: 0 }` that is rendered above the app content at the top of the screen).
```

> When this is set to `false`, status bar behaves as a block element and limits space available on your device's screen.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When this is set to `false`, the status bar behaves as a block element and limits space available on your device's screen.
```

Defaults to `true`.

> Note: A translucent status bar makes sense when the `backgroundColor` is using a transparent color (`#RRGGBBAA`).

> > When you use translucent status bar and solid `backgroundColor` (`#RRGGBB`) then the upper part of your app to be partially covered by non-transparent status bar and thus some of the app's content might not be visible to the user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> When you use a translucent status bar and a solid `backgroundColor` (`#RRGGBB`), then the upper part of your app will be partially covered by the non-transparent status bar and thus some of your app's content might not be visible to the user.
```

### `hidden`

Value type - `boolean`.

> Tells the the system whether status bar should be visible or not.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tells the system whether the status bar should be visible or not.
```

> When status bar is not visible it can be presented via the `swipe down` gesture.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the status bar is not visible it can be presented via the `swipe down` gesture.
```

> When set to `true`, status bar will not respect `backgroundColor` or `barStyle` settings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When set to `true`, the status bar will not respect `backgroundColor` or `barStyle` settings.
```

Defaults to `false`.

## Working with 3rd-party Libraries

> Expo makes the status bar `translucent` by default on Android which is consistent with iOS, and more in line with material design. Unfortunately some libraries don't support `translucent` status bar, e.g. - navigation libraries, libraries which provide a header bar etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Expo makes the status bar `translucent` by default on Android which is consistent with iOS, and more in line with material design. Unfortunately some libraries don't support `translucent` status bars, e.g. - navigation libraries, libraries which provide a header bar etc.
```

If you need to use such a library, there are a few options:

### Set the `backgroundColor` of the status bar to an opaque color and disable `translucent` option

> Setting solely `backgroundColor` to opaque color will disable the `transparency` of the status bar, but preserve `translucency`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Setting solely `backgroundColor` to an opaque color will disable the `transparency` of the status bar, but preserve `translucency`.
```

This option can be used to specify whether the status bar content (icons and text in the status bar) is light, or dark. Usually a status bar with a light background has dark content, and a status bar with a dark background has light content.

The valid values are:
- `light-content` - The status bar content is light colored (usually white). This is the default value.
- `dark-content` - The status bar content is dark colored (usually dark grey). This is only available on Android 6.0 onwards. It will fallback to `light-content` in older versions.

> > Note: Be aware that choosing `light-content` and having `SplashScreen` image that is very light (close to `white` color) and/or having `backgroundColor` of your app set to `white` (or close to `white` color) may result in status bar's icons blending in and wouldn't be visible.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Note: If you choose `light-content` and have either your app's `SplashScreen` or `backgroundColor` also set to a light color, the status bar icons may blend in and not be visible.
```

Reviewer 2: thanks for adding this note! we should follow up in a future PR to finish off https://github.com/expo/expo/pull/5230 so the status bar can be customized for the splash screen

Author: @cruzach, I've described what's on my mind a little more, because I'm not sure that your suggestion is clearly understandable:
```
Note: If you choose `light-content` and have either your app's `SplashScreen` or `backgroundColor` also set to a light color, the status bar icons may blend in and not be visible.
```
What does it mean to `have your app's SplashScreen set to a light color` 🤔 😛 
Please check out my new description for this 🙏

Reviewer: Your new description is perfect 👍 

Sorry, I should've been clearer. Instead of "have your app's SplashScreen set to a light color" I should've said "having a light-colored SplashScreen image"

### `backgroundColor`

This option can be used to set a background color for the status bar.

> Keep in mind that the Android status bar can be `translucent` (default behavior for Expo apps).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This defaults to  `translucent` in Expo apps.
```

Author: I've removed this one as it stopped to make any sense, but I've described a little bit more what might happen in `### translucent` section - please take a look at this 😉

But, when you specify an opaque background color for the status bar, it'll lose it's translucency.

> The valid value is a 6-character long hexadecimal solid color string of shape `#RRGGBB` (e.g. `#C2185B`) or 8-character long hexadecimal color string with transparency of shape `#RRGGBBAA` (e.g. `#23C1B255`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The valid value is a 6-character long hexadecimal solid color string with the format `#RRGGBB` (e.g. `#C2185B`) or 8-character long hexadecimal color string with transparency with the format `#RRGGBBAA` (e.g. `#23C1B255`).
```

### `translucent`

Value type - `boolean`.
Specifies whether status bar should be translucent.

> Translucent status bar is visible on the screen, but it takes no space and your application can draw beneath it (similar to element with styles `{ position: "absolute", top: 0 }` that is rendered above the app content at the top of the screen).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When this is set to `true`, status bar is visible on the screen, but it takes no space and your application can draw beneath it (similar to a UI element with styles `{ position: "absolute", top: 0 }` that is rendered above the app content at the top of the screen).
```

> Non-translucent status bar behaves as a block element and limits space available on your device's screen.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When this is set to `false`, status bar behaves as a block element and limits space available on your device's screen.
```

Defaults to `true`.

> > Note: Translucent status bar makes sense when it's `backgroundColor` is transparent (at least to some extend).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Note: A translucent status bar makes sense when the `backgroundColor` is transparent.
```

Reviewer: I'm not sure I understand what this means

Author: @cruzach I've added a little more explanation what's on my mind here.

### `hidden`

Value type - `boolean`.

> Tells the the system whether status bar should be visible or not.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tells the the system whether status bar should be visible or not.
```

> When status bar is not visible it can be presented via `swipe down` gesture.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When status bar is not visible it can be presented via the `swipe down` gesture.
```

> Hidden status bar would not respect `backgroundColor` or `barStyle` settings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When set to `true`, status bar will not respect `backgroundColor` or `barStyle` settings.
```

Defaults to `false`.

## Working with 3rd-party Libraries

Expo makes the status bar `translucent` by default on Android which is consistent with iOS, and more in line with material design. Unfortunately some libraries don't support `translucent` status bar, e.g. - navigation libraries, libraries which provide a header bar etc.

If you need to use such a library, there are a few options:

### Set the `backgroundColor` of the status bar to an opaque color and disable `translucent` option

Setting solely `backgroundColor` to opaque color will disable the `transparency` of the status bar, but preserve `translucency`.

> You need to explicitly set `translucent` to `false` if you want status bar in your app to take space on the device's screen.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You need to explicitly set `translucent` to `false` if you want your app's status bar to take up space on the device's screen.
```

```

If you don't need to set the background color, you can just set a top padding on the wrapping `View` instead.

## Recommended configuration

> Recommended way is to use configuration in `app.json` to obtain appearance you want to have during `SplashScreen` phase and later on use [`StatusBar` API from React Native](https://facebook.github.io/react-native/docs/statusbar.html) to dynamically adjust status bar appearance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is recommended to use the configuration in `app.json` to obtain the appearance you want to have during the `SplashScreen` phase, and later on use the [`StatusBar` API from React Native](https://facebook.github.io/react-native/docs/statusbar.html) to dynamically adjust status bar appearance.
```
